Reviewer 6 of IROS 2023 submission 2887

Comments to the author
======================

This paper presents a study of jumping maneuvers of a
single-leg system, towards developing a high-payload but
agile quadruped robot. With the models of actuation and
energy flow, two TO problems accounting for take-off and
braking phases are formulated. Simulation and experimental
results are provided.

To improve the paper, several comments or suggestions are
given below:

1) The motivation is not clear. This paper focuses on the
study of a single leg and its jumping behavior, but the
ultimate goal of this research will be bringing up a new
heavy-duty and electrically powered agile quadruped.
Obviously, there is a gap between single-leg control and
quadruped robot control. The sophisticated strategy for
single-leg jumping control may not work for the quadruped
robot. The Reviewer suggests that the authors should only
claim a single-leg jumping study; otherwise, the motivation
of this paper is not clear and valid.

2) Contribution 1 is weak because the TO formulation is
standard. The Reviewer suggests that this contribution
should be removed. Moreover, the TO formulation for
single-leg jumping is not new anymore.

3) Contribution 2 makes this paper special, so the authors
can really focus on this point and make it become a core
idea.

4) \Lamda is not defined in (32).

5) The "impact ratio" only depends on the leg configuration
angles. An easier way is to set a "good" leg configuration
while landing, then the complex TO problem seems kind of
redundant. Please explain more about this concern.

6) The authors consider their work as "Agile Jumping
Maneuvers", which is overclaimed. How agile is agile?
Sometimes, people may consider forward/back flips as
"agile" motions because such motions have been common
sense. If only focusing on jumping, pursuing the highest
jumping height can be also considered to be agile, e.g.,
[1]. Any customized metric for "agile" motions would be
also helpful, but it can not be found in this paper.

Overall, this paper provides a relatively comprehensive
study. However, the high-level motivation based on a future
quadruped robot development and the claim on "Agile Jumping
Maneuvers" are not convincing. The authors can improve the
paper by clarifying the motivation for single-leg jumping
(e.g., energy regeneration) and defining agility metrics if
any.

[1] Hawkes, E.W., Xiao, C., Peloquin, RA. et al. Engineered
jumpers overcome biological limits via work multiplication.
Nature 604, 657–661 (2022).
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-022-04606-3

Comments on the Video Attachment
================================

It helps understand this work