Reviewer 13 of IROS 2023 submission 2887

Comments to the author
======================

This paper presents a two-phase trajectory optimization
approach to generate single-leg jumping motion to maximize
apex height, energy regeneration, and minimize energy
dissipation. The jumping motion is demonstrated on the real
hardware.

The main contribution of this paper seems to be
incorporating a more careful model such as BLDC motor
models into the jumping optimization framework. The authors
implement standard models such as rotor dynamics and
battery power models into TO. As a result, the jumping
motion better considers post-impact energy regeneration.
The author makes several assumtions justified by the
experiment.

Most of my review suggestions are on the result part. In
the first stage of TO, the author maximizes the jumping
height considering the motor model. Compared to previous
works such as [1][2][3], I wonder if the better model
generates a higher apex. 

There is only one baseline in the result section which is
the regenerated energy compared to the non-optimal
trajectory. The reviewer suggests adding more baseline
experiments. For example, the author claims that a better
model reduces the reality gap. Adding a baseline using one
of the methods below can better showcase the improvement. 

In the video at about 42sec, estimated and measured energy
regeneration for optimal compared to non-optimal
trajectories is presented. However, those figures are
confusing as curves are compared against each other, and
there is no legend. In addition, they can be moved into the
results section of the paper, since Figure 11 is somehow
empty.

One concern is that the knee joint seems to reverse its
direction when jumping, presumably to alleviate the braking
on the air. This may not be possible on an actual robot,
especially considering there are obstacles around.

[1] Ding, Yanran, and Hae-Won Park. "Design and
experimental implementation of a quasi-direct-drive leg for
optimized jumping." 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference
on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS). IEEE, 2017.

[2] Shen, Junjie, et al. "Optimized jumping of an
articulated robotic leg." 2020 17th International
Conference on Ubiquitous Robots (UR). IEEE, 2020.

[3] Chignoli, Matthew, and Sangbae Kim. "Online trajectory
optimization for dynamic aerial motions of a quadruped
robot." 2021 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA). IEEE, 2021.

Comments on the Video Attachment
================================

The video shows the hardware experiment of jumping using an
optimized trajectory. Some of the figures such as around 42
sec are confusing due to lacking legends.