Reviewer 11 of IROS 2023 submission 2887

Comments to the author
======================

The main content of this paper is related with single leg
jump and landing energy harvest by optimization. The author
separate the task into 2 phases optimization: (1)Take-off
optimization whose aim is to reach the maximum jump height;
(2)Lading phase optimization in which maximizing the energy
regeneration. The idea of paper is interesting, but I don’t
think the results are enough to support it. Here are some
comments and recommendations:

1.Since energy regeneration is a important research points
of paper, how to harvest the kinetic energy in hardware
should be clarified.

2.In the take-off optimization, energy cost and jump height
are important parts in the cost function. However, I have
not seen anything related with them in your experiment and
simulation (e.g. maxim jump height and its energy cost).

3.In section III C, you mentions that there will be some
problems if jerk and yank are not considered in the
optimization. It seems that at the end of take-off phase
the leg joints will be closed to the singular position
(when the leg is in a straight line configuration) which
causes the problem. So I think it is because of kinematic
singularity instead of jerk or yank.

4.The paper uses simulation results to verify the
optimization about energy regeneration, which I think it is
not reasonable. Considering that the gear ratio of motor is
50:1 and the optimization result is counterintuitve, lots
of energy may be diminished during transmission. So I doubt
that how much energy can be harvested. It will be more
convincing that experiment in the leg prototype about
energy harvest can be added in the Section IV in the paper.

5.In the Fig.11, there are only two sets of impedance
setpoints are compared, and I think it is not enough to
prove that the setpoint from your optimization framework is
optimal and converge. I recommend that more sets should be
added, especially the setpoints closed to your optimal ones
should be added.

Comments on the Video Attachment
================================

As I mentioned in the comments, more experiments are
needed.